Saved queries docs (#43731)
elastic/kibana: docs/discover/search.asciidoc

selected, opening the saved search changes the selected index pattern. The query language
used for the saved search will also be automatically selected.

[[save-load-delete-query]]
=== Saving and Loading Queries

> Saving queries enables you to reload them into <<discover, Discover>>, <<visualize, visualizations>> and <<dashboard, dashboards>>.

Reviewer: I'd suggest a slight tweak: 

```suggestion
Saving queries allows you to reuse them in <<discover, Discover>>, <<visualize, Visualize >> and <<dashboard, Dashboard>>.
```

Using the terms `visualizations` and `dashboards` made me think they could somehow be included in the individual dashboard and visualization objects themselves.

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57

Reviewer: I'm still seeing `visualizations and dashboards` instead of `Visualize and Dashboard`

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/1924aaebb70e917ca6dc5682ea2af9fcb8391d85#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R91

> Saving a query saves the query string, the filters and the time filter but, unlike searches, the index pattern is not saved, making saved queries portable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Saving a query saves the query string, the filters, and the time filter but, unlike searches, the index pattern is not saved, making saved queries portable.
```

Author: With additional changes: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R92

> Saving a query saves the query string, the filters and the time filter but, unlike searches, the index pattern is not saved, making saved queries portable.

Reviewer: Another slight tweak:

```suggestion
Saved queries always include the KQL or Lucene query text, but the filter bar and time picker can optionally be included as well. Unlike saved searches, queries do not include Discover specific information like the columns selected in the document table, the sort order, or the index pattern. Saved searches can be thought of as a way to persist a particular Discover view. Saved queries on the other hand are a portable set of filters that can be reused in other applications.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/commit/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R92

==== Read only access

> When you have insufficient privileges to save queries, the following indicator in Kibana will be displayed and the *Save* button won't be visible in the saved query management pop-over.

Reviewer 2: I don't see an "indicator" like the glasses icon.  How about:

If you have insufficient privileges to save queries, the **Save** button isn't visible in the **Saved queries** popover.  For more information, see [Granting access to Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/xpack-security-authorization.html).

Author: I remove this from the text, as recommended [here](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731#discussion_r316803573)

> When you have insufficient privileges to save queries, the following indicator in Kibana will be displayed and the *Save* button won't be visible in the saved query management pop-over.

Reviewer: There's no indicator in this screenshot so I think you can remove that from the text:

```suggestion
When you have insufficient privileges to save queries the *Save* button won't be visible in the saved query management popover.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57

[role="screenshot"]
image::discover/images/saved-query-management-component-readonly.png["Example of the saved query management popover with read only access to Discover",width="80%"]

==== Saving a Query

> To save the current query string, filters and time filter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To save the current query string, filters, and time filter:
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R101

> To save the current query string, filters and time filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save the current query text, filters and time filter:
```

I think we should keep calling it "query text" since that's what we say in the UI. Query string is used in some other places below as well.

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R101

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query string input.

> . Click the *Save* button in the popover.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Save* in the popover.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R104

. Enter a name, a description and select the filter options you would like to include (filters are automatically included but the time filter is not) and click *Save*.

[role="screenshot"]
image::discover/images/saved-query-management-component.png["Example of the saved query management popover with a list of saved queries with write access",width="80%"]

> [role="screenshot"]

Reviewer 2: Is this image needed?  If so,  suggest this:

3.  Enter a name and a description, and then select the filter options that you want to include. Filters are automatically included but the time filter is not.
image showing description field

4.  Click **Save**.
Image showing list of objects

Use a "+" between the step and the image to indent the image under the step.

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R110

image::discover/images/saved-query-save-form.png["Example of the saved query management save form with the filters option included and the time filter option excluded",width="80%"]

==== Loading a Query
To load a saved query into Discover:

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query string input.

> . Select the query you want to load (you might need to scroll down to find the query you are looking for).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the query you want to load. You might need to scroll down to find the query you are looking for.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R118

==== Saving Changes Made to a Query

> When you have loaded a query and made changes to the query string, the filters or the time filter, you can save the changes as a new saved query or save the changes to the existing saved query. To save the changes as a new saved query:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you have loaded a query and made changes to the query string, the filters, or the time filter, you can save the changes as a new saved query or save the changes to the existing saved query. 

To save the changes as a new saved query:
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R121

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query string input.

> . Click the *Save as new* button in the popover.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Save as new* in the popover.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R127

> . Enter a name, a description and select the filter options you would like to include (filters are automatically included but the time filter is not) and click *Save*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enter a name and a description, and then select the filter options that you want to include.  Filters are automatically included, but the time filter is not. 

Click *Save*.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R127

To save the changes to the current query:

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query string input.

> . Click the *Save changes* button in the popover.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Save changes* in the popover.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R134

> . Enter a description and select the filter options you would like to include (filters are automatically included but the time filter is not) and click *Save*.

Reviewer 2: See suggestion above.

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R133

==== Clearing a Query
To clear a query that is currently loaded:

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query string input.

> . Click the *Clear* button in the popover.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Clear* in the popover.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R143

This will unload the query but will not delete it.

==== Deleting a Query
To delete a query from the saved query management popover:

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query string input.
. Click the trash can icon to delete the query.

> [role="screenshot"]

Reviewer 2: Align image under step.

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R152

image::discover/images/saved-query-management-component-save-as-new.png["Example of the saved query management popover when a query is loaded and we are about to delete a query",width="80%"]

> You can import, export and delete saved queries from *Management/Kibana/Saved Objects*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can import, export, and delete saved queries from *Management > Kibana > Saved Objects*.
```

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/b3163d0499ebb516e91879a34d4508e9e5deca57#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R156

selected, opening the saved search changes the selected index pattern. The query language
used for the saved search will also be automatically selected.

[[save-load-delete-query]]
=== Saving queries

> A saved query is a portable collection of query text and filters that you can reuse in <<discover, Discover>>, <<visualize, Visualize>> and <<dashboard, Dashboard>>. Save a query when you want to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A saved query is a portable collection of query text and filters that you can reuse in <<discover, Discover>>, <<visualize, Visualize>>, and <<dashboard, Dashboard>>. Save a query when you want to:
```

> * Retrieve results from the same query at a later time without having to reenter the query text, add the filters or set the time filter again

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Retrieve results from the same query at a later time without having to reenter the query text, add the filters, or set the time filter
```

* Share your query

> * View the results of the same query in multiple apps

Reviewer 2: Suggest making this the second bullet

Saved queries don't include information specific to Discover, such as the currently selected columns in the document table, the sort order, and the index pattern. If you want to save your current view of Discover for later retrieval and reuse, create a <<save-open-search, saved search>> instead.

[role="xpack"]
==== Read only access
If you have insufficient privileges to save queries, the *Save current query* button isn't visible in the saved query management popover.

> 

Reviewer 2: I don't feel that this image adds anything here.  Instead, maybe add this line:

For more information, see [Granting access to Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/xpack-security-authorization.html).

[role="screenshot"]
image::discover/images/saved-query-management-component-readonly-view.png["Example of the saved query management popover with read only access to Discover",width="80%"]

==== Saving a query
To save the current query text, filters, and time filter:

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query text input.
. Click *Save current query* in the popover.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::discover/images/saved-query-management-component-all-privileges.png["Example of the saved query management popover with a list of saved queries with write access",width="80%"]
+

> . Enter a name, a description, and then select the filter options that you want to include. By default filters are automatically included, but the time filter is not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enter a name, a description, and then select the filter options that you want to include. By default, filters are automatically included, but the time filter is not.
```
```suggestion
. Enter a name, a description, and then select the filter options that you want to include. By default, filters are automatically included, but the time filter is not.
```

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::discover/images/saved-query-save-form-default-filters.png["Example of the saved query management save form with the filters option included and the time filter option excluded",width="80%"]
. Click *Save*.

==== Loading a query

> To load a saved query into Discover, Dashboard, or Visualize:

Reviewer 2: Not sure I understand this.  If you load a query, does it appear in all three apps?

Author: No, it only loads in the current app. It is still available to load in the other apps but doesn't do that 'in the background'. If, for example, you're in Discover and you load a saved query, the saved query items will be applied to the current Discover view. If you then navigate to Dashboard, the saved query won't automatically be loaded, you'll have to load it into the Dashboard view manually.

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query text input.
. Select the query you want to load. You might need to scroll down to find the query you are looking for.

==== Saving changes to a query
If you load a query and then make changes to the query text, the filters, or the time filter, you can save the changes as a new query or update the existing query.

To save the changes as a new query:

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query text input.
. Click *Save as new* in the popover.
. Enter a name and a description, and then select the filter options that you want to include.
. Click *Save*.
+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::discover/images/saved-query-management-component-save-as-new-query.png["Example of the saved query management popover when a query is loaded and we have made changes to the query",width="80%"]

Reviewer 2: I don't think this image is necessary.

Author: We need it to show the 'Clear', 'Save as new' and 'Save changes' buttons. Those buttons aren't in the other screen shots.

To save the changes to the current query:

. Click *#* in the search bar.
. Click *Save changes* in the popover.
. Enter a description, and then select the filter options that you want to include.
. Click *Save*.

==== Clearing a query
To clear a query that is currently loaded in an application:

. Click *#* in the search bar.
. Click *Clear* in the popover.

==== Deleting a query
To completely delete a query:

. Click *#* in the search bar, next to the query text input.

> . Hover on the query you want to delete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Hover over the query you want to delete.
```

> . Click the trash can icon to delete the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click the trash can icon.
```

+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::discover/images/saved-query-management-component-delete-query-button.png["Example of the saved query management popover when a query is hovered over and we are about to delete a query",width="80%"]

Reviewer 2: I don't feel this image is necessary

Author: I feel it is needed because the trash can icon doesn't appear in any of the other images. It's a subtle difference in the visual state in the component.

[[save-load-delete-query]]
=== Saving and Loading Queries
Saving queries allows you to reuse them in <<discover, Discover>>, <<visualize, visualizations>> and <<dashboard, dashboards>>.
Saved queries always include the KQL or Lucene query text, but the filter bar and time picker can optionally be included as well. Unlike saved searches, queries do not include Discover specific information like the columns selected in the document table, the sort order, or the index pattern. Saved searches can be thought of as a way to persist a particular Discover view. Saved queries on the other hand are a portable set of filters that can be reused in other applications.

> ==== Read only access

Reviewer: Was there an x-pack label next to this before or am imagining things? I see there is one in the saved search section so I'm not sure if that's what I was seeing before or not. Probably we should have one here since there is one in the saved search section?

Author: I had one there but then removed it. I'll put it back.

Author: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/43731/commits/1924aaebb70e917ca6dc5682ea2af9fcb8391d85#diff-87a4343c7de08863ed7fa9d869b5c5f1R94
